1. For JavaScript's asynchronous nature, it can be seen as a disadvantage because program flow may be atypical, unpredicatable, or counterintuitive, which would needlessly increase the difficulty to master the language. As for loose typing, it is much harder to debug because type errors would tend to be handled in an unexpected method which may interfere with the flow of the program while not be directly stated by the program's natural error handling. Type errors could cause underlying problems that go unseen. Lastly, the web platform that JavaScript specializes in may restrict the usage and mastery of JavaScript to be contained in web development. People who master JavaScript essentially master only web development tools, and it may not directly impact other means of computer science or software engineering.
2. As mentioned in the pre-lab video, loose typing allows for the program to run, even in the case of common errors, in order to preserve valuable data that could have been collected. Type management is easily prone to programming bugs and errors, so loose typing attempts to offload some of that stress. Additionally, it could be a means to allow for newer programmers to code in JavaScript as it MIGHT be seen as more lenient.
3. Compiled language and interpreted language differs in the sense that compiled ones preprocess the entire code for syntax, types, and other factors whereas an interpreted one processes the program line by line as it goes. JavaScript is an interpreted language as seen by its use of loose typing and ambiguous variable types. It may be beneficial for JavaScript to use an interpreted language processing as it allows for line by line debugging and improvised error handling.
4. Learning the advanced tools and topics are bottlenecked by basic understanding of the underlying principles. Learning vanilla JavaScript solidifies our foundation, which will improve the quality and efficiency of learning frameworks. Learning frameworks without learning vanilla JavaScript reduces the ability to learn those frameworks.
5. This lab relates to our project by completing the fundamental toolkit we need to make a complex and proper web application. JavaScript is an essential tool in making web applications more alive, but diagramming will be especially useful in planning the user experience and producing a realistically proper product.